layout: page
title: "Who are We?"
permalink: /about/

## The Lab
We are the Icelandic Vision Lab! Based in Nýi Garður, the Icelandic Vision Lab offers a stimulating academic environment. Despite the name, the lab is truly international with current members and alumni from seven countries across the world who all work on various aspects of perception and cognition. A list of recent publications can be found here. The lab is well funded and provides good access to necessary equipment for the studies (for more information on our equipment, see X).
For further information on who is who, you can refer to the following web address – http://visionlab.is/people/. Here you will find the current list of who is floating about the place (and the website comes with photographs, so this is always useful for the name bingo you will obviously play to get all these names memorised). Unfortunately, there is no phonetic key for these funky Icelandic names, so if you are new here and naive to Iceland, you’ve got to improvise until you become accustomed to all this rune pronunciation.
If you have any problems with the technical malarkey (key cards, emails, logins, pay etc.,), your first point of call is Ingiríður Þórisdóttir (ingirid@hi.is), and she will pass you on to the relevant person. You can also find her in the Skrifstofa Sálfræðideildar, which is just in front of the main entrance on the first floor of our building Nýi Garður, should you prefer to go to her in person with your queries. The opening hours are weekdays from 10-12 and 13-15.
If you are here as a student of some sort, the university has some lovely psych services which are free access and open for all. There more information about it here, and you can always email salfraedingar@hi.is to make an appointment with a psychologist.

## The Country
Iceland consistently ranks as one of the best places in the world to live: Icelanders are among the happiest people according to many polls and life satisfaction is amongst the highest. On top of this, Iceland has been rated the most peaceful, most gender-equal, and most LGBTQ-friendly countries in the world. It also has spectacular nature, very fresh air, great tap water (the eggy showers, you get used to them, I swear…) and a buzzing arts and culture scene. I’m writing this as a non-Icelander, so I’m not biased or anything like this. (Validity is key in science, folks). Also, there are no mosquitoes in Iceland! There are the midges, but you can go to Mývatn in the summer to find out more about this first-hand, if you dare.
And, last but not least, if you’re new to Iceland and looking for some information on working in Iceland, kennitalas, taxes, unions and all that jazz, the following web address is a great resource for getting acquainted with how things work here - https://english.hi.is/international_staff_services .
